# Cloud Providers

## Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Amazon Web Services (AWS) is an Amazon company that was launched in the year 2002. AWS is the most popular cloud service provider in the world. This service is used by millions of customers. Amazon Web Services (AWS) has grown net sales from ~$8 billion in 2015, to more than $17 billion for 2017, reaching $35 billion by 2019, and now generating almost $74 billion on an annual basis. This staggering growth has been driven by the expansion of AWS from 32 availability zones in 2015, to 52 availability zones in 2017, and now reaching 84 availability zones at present. In parallel, the company has launched thousands of new AWS services which has also fueled its expansion. It is the largest cloud service provider globally. From its data centers, the business provides over 200 fully featured services including compute, storage, and database. AWS currently has 26 regions and 84 availability zones in operation. These regions and availability zones are located throughout the United States, AWS GovCloud (US), Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, as well as in the Middle East & Africa.
# AWS Services
AWS offers hundreds of services. Some of these include Virtual Private Cloud, EC2, AWS Data Transfer, Simple Storage Service, DynamoDB, Elastic Compute Cloud, AWS Key Management Service, AmazonCloudWatch, Simple Notification Service, Relational Database Service, Route 53, Simple Queue Service, CloudTrail, and Simple Email Service.

## Microsoft Azure 
Microsoft Corporation’s Intelligent Cloud segment contains Azure, the second largest cloud service provider globally. Azure is one of the fastest-growing clouds among them all. Azure was launched years after the release of AWS and Google Cloud but is still knocking on the door to become the top cloud services provider. Through Microsoft Azure, the company delivers a consistent hybrid cloud experience, developer productivity, artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities, and security & compliance. Microsoft Azure presently has 60 regions and 116 availability zones in operation. These regions and availability zones are distributed throughout the United States, Azure Government (U.S.), Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, as well as in the Middle East & Africa.
Over 200 physical Microsoft Azure data centers are located worldwide, which house computer servers, each fitted-out with independent power, cooling, and networking. The company connects this data center infrastructure with more than 175,000 miles of fiber lines across 140 countries. Microsoft Cloud revenue, which includes revenue from Azure and other cloud services, Office 365 Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365, reached $23.4 billion for the latest quarter, an increase of 32% year-over-year. As such, on an annualized basis, Microsoft Cloud revenue currently stands at $93.6 billion. However, Microsoft does not explicitly disclose Azure revenues, meaning that Azure is only a subset of total Microsoft Cloud revenue.
# Azure Services
Azure offers hundreds of services within various categories including AI + Machine Learning, Analytics, Blockchain, Compute, Containers, Databases, Developer Tools, DevOps, Identity, Integration, Internet of Things, Management, Media, Microsoft Azure Stack, Migration, Mixed Reality, Mobile, Networking, Security, Storage, Web, and Windows Virtual Desktop.

## IBM Cloud
IBM Cloud developed by IBM is a set of cloud computing services for businesses. Similar to other cloud service providers, the IBM cloud includes IaaS, SaaS, and PaaS services via public, private, and hybrid cloud models.
In late 2021, IBM spun-off its managed infrastructure services business to Kyndryl, which now designs, builds, and manages private, public, and multi-cloud environments for its customers. IBM Cloud (Kyndryl) today has 11 regions and 29 availability zones in operation. These regions and availability zones are distributed throughout the United States, Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Kyndryl’s Cloud Services segment helps enterprises optimize their use of cloud service providers by integrating services delivered from independent software vendors, public cloud service providers, internal platforms, and technologies such as the internet of things (IoT). To this end, Kyndryl has recently established new strategic relationships with both Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud.
# IBM Services 
Compute, Network, Storage, Cloud Packs, Management, Security, Database, Analytics, AI, IoT, Mobile, Dev Tools, Blockchain, Integration, Migration, Private Cloud, and VMware.

## Google Cloud
Google cloud platform is Google’s cloud. Similar to AWS and Azure, Google Cloud also offers similar services in various categories, including compute, storage, identity, security, database, AI and machine learning, virtualization, DevOps and more.
Google Cloud Platform (GCP), part of Alphabet Inc, is the third largest cloud service provider globally, providing enterprise-ready cloud services. GCP enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on its distributed and scalable infrastructure, while utilizing the service’s capabilities in security, data management, analytics, and artificial intelligence (AI).
Google Cloud today has 34 regions and 103 availability zones in operation. These regions and availability zones are situated throughout the United States, Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Alphabet Inc’s Google Cloud unit earns revenue from the fees it charges for its infrastructure, platform, and other services. For the latest quarter, Google Cloud generated $5.8 billion in revenue, an increase of almost 44% year-over-year. Therefore, on an annualized basis, Google Cloud produces $23.3 billion of revenue.
# Google Cloud Platform services:
AI and Machine Learning, API Management, Compute, Containers, Data Analytics, Databases, Developer Tools, Healthcare and Life Sciences, Hybrid and Multi-cloud, Internet of Things, Management Tools, Media and Gaming, Migration, Networking, Security and Identity, Serverless Computing, and Storage.
Google products are also offered in the cloud, including G Suite, Google Maps Platform, Google Hardware, Google Identity, Chrome Enterprise, Android Enterprise, Apigee, Firebase, and Orbitera.

## Oracle Cloud
Oracle cloud platform is the cloud offering of Oracle corporation. Oracle cloud offers IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, and Data as a Service (DaaS). Oracle Corporation’s Cloud Services offerings include Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI). Through OCI, the company is a cloud service provider, delivering infrastructure technologies as-a-service including compute, storage, and networking services.
Oracle Cloud presently has 38 regions and 46 availability zones in operation. These regions and availability zones are located throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, the Middle East, & Africa (EMEA), Latin America, and Asia Pacific. In addition, Oracle Cloud offers government cloud regions for the U.S. government, U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and UK government.
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) typically charges a prepaid fee that gradually decreases as its OCI services are consumed by the customer over a defined time period. For the latest quarter, Oracle’s Cloud Revenue, which includes IaaS and SaaS, reached $2.9 billion, an increase of 19% year-over-year. Therefore, on an annualized basis, Oracle Cloud produces $11.6 billion of revenue.
# Oracle Services
Oracle IaaS offerings are Compute, Storage, Networking, Governance, Database, Load Balancing, DNS Monitoring, Ravello, and FastConnect.
Oracle PaaS offerings are Data Management, Application Development, Integration, Business Analytics, Security, Management, and Content and Enterprise.
Oracle SaaS offerings are CX, HCM, ERP, SCM, EPM, IoT, Analytics, Data, and Blockchain Applications.
Oracle DaaS is the Oracle Data Cloud.

## Alibaba Cloud
Alibaba Cloud, founded in 2009, is registered and headquartered in Singapore. It was initially built to serve Alibaba’s own e-commerce ecosystem and is now offered to the public. Alibaba Cloud is the largest cloud provider in China.
It is the fourth largest cloud service provider globally, the primary cloud vendor in Asia Pacific. Through Alibaba Cloud, the business offers cloud services, including elastic computing, database, storage, network virtualization, large-scale computing, security, management & application services, big data analytics, and machine learning. Alibaba Cloud currently has 27 regions and 84 availability zones in operation. In Mainland China, Alibaba is the dominant cloud service provider, with over 10 regions across the country. Outside of Mainland China, Alibaba Cloud operates in the United States, Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Middle East.
Alibaba Group primarily generates cloud computing revenue from enterprise customers based on the duration and usage of their services. The company’s Cloud segment yielded $2.99 billion (RMB18,971 million) of revenue for the latest quarter, an increase of 12% year-over-year. Thus, on an annualized basis, Alibaba Cloud revenue currently stands at nearly $12 billion.
# Alibaba Services 
Alibaba offers various products and services in various categories, including Elastic Computing, Storage and CDN, Networking, Database Services, Security, Monitoring and Management, Domains and Websites, Analytics and Data Technology, Application Services, Media Services, Middleware, Cloud Communication, Apsara Stack, and Internet of Things.

## Heroku 
Heroku is a container-based cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS). Developers use Heroku to deploy, manage, and scale modern apps. the platform is elegant, flexible, and easy to use, offering developers the simplest path to getting their apps to market.
Heroku is fully managed, giving developers the freedom to focus on their core product without the distraction of maintaining servers, hardware, or infrastructure. The Heroku experience provides services, tools, workflows, and polyglot support—all designed to enhance developer productivity.
# Heroku Services
Heroku Platform, Heroku Postgres, Heroku Redis, Apache Kafka on Heroku, Heroku Connect, Heroku Enterprise, Heroku Elements and Heroku Teams.