CLOUD COMPUTING SERVICES

Cloud Computing service that offers convenient, on-demand network access to a pool of shared resources. This may include DATA STORAGE such as private cloud storage (enterprise or internal cloud storage system), public cloud storage, hybrid cloud storage, and community cloud storage. DATABASES such as Amazon Web Service (AWS), Oracle Database, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, IBM DB2, MongoDB Atlas, and OpenStack.  SERVERS such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instances, Microsoft Azure instances, and Google Compute Engine instances. Networking, tools, or any other resources that can be accessed through the internet.

Cloud computing services are offered in different types of service models, each of which satisfies unique business requirements. These servers include Software as a Service (SaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Monitoring-as-a-service (MaaS), Network as a Service (NaaS), Communications as a Service (CaaS), and Storage as a Service (SaaS).

Once you are signed up with any of the cloud service models (Saas, IaaS, and Paas), you can leverage wider possibilities to bring flexibility and efficiency to support greater business growth. Enterprise cloud platforms like InfinCE makes this transition to the cloud even more seamless, providing the right security, control, and flexibility to scale and adapt with time.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) is also known as Hardware as a Service (HaaS). It is a computing infrastructural model managed over the internet. The main advantage of using IaaS is that it helps users to avoid the cost and complexity of purchasing and managing physical servers.
Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) is a form of cloud computing model designed to provide virtualized computing resources over the internet. In an IAAS model, a third-party provider hosts hardware, software, servers, storage, and other infrastructure components on behalf of its users. IAAS providers also host users’ applications and handle tasks including system maintenance, backup, and resiliency planning. 
IAAS platforms offer highly scalable resources that can be adjusted on-demand which makes them well-suited for workloads that are temporary, experimental, or change unexpectedly. Other characteristics of IAAS environments include the automation of administrative tasks, dynamic scaling, desktop virtualization, and policy-based services.

Technically, the IaaS market has a relatively low barrier of entry, but it may require substantial financial investment in order to build and support the cloud infrastructure. Mature open-source cloud management frameworks like OpenStack are available to everyone and provide strong a software foundation for companies that want to build their private cloud or become a public cloud providers.
There are two major network services offered by public cloud service providers: load balancing and DNS (domain name systems). Load balancing provides a single point of access to multiple servers that run behind it. A load balancer is a network device that distributes network traffic among servers using specific load balancing algorithms while DNS is a hierarchical naming system for computers, or any other gaming devices that use IP addressing for network identification – a DNS system associates domain names with IP addresses. Examples of the IaaS service model include DigitalOcean, Linode, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Compute Engine (GCE), Rackspace, and Cisco Metacloud.

Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Platform as a Service (PaaS) is a cloud computing model that specifically delivers applications over the internet. In a PaaS model, a cloud provider delivers hardware and software tools, usually those needed for application development, to its users as a service. A PaaS provider hosts the hardware and software on its own infrastructure. As a result, PaaS frees users from having to install in-house hardware and software to develop or run a new application.

PaaS does not replace a business’ entire infrastructure instead, a business relies on PaaS providers for key services, such as Java development or application hosting. A PaaS provider, however, supports all the underlying computing and software; users only need to log in and start using the platform-usually through a Web browser interface. PaaS providers then charge for that access on a per-user basis or on a monthly basis.

Some of the main characteristics of PAAS include Scalability and auto-provisioning of the underlying infrastructure. Security and redundancy. Build and deployment of tools for rapid application management and deployment. Integration with other infrastructure components such as web services, databases, and Lightweight directory access protocol. Multi-tenancy, the platform service can be used by many users simultaneously. Logging, reporting, and code instrumentation. Management interfaces and/or API.

Software as a Service (SaaS)
Software as a Service (SaaS) is a software distribution model in which applications are hosted by a vendor or service provider and made available to customers over a network, typically the over the Internet. SaaS has become an increasingly prevalent delivery model as underlying technologies that support Web services and service-oriented architecture (SOA. SaaS is closely related to the ASP (Application service provider) and on-demand computing software delivery models. International Data Corporation identifies two slightly different delivery models for SaaS namely the hosted application model and the software development model. Some of the core benefits of using the SaaS model include Easier administration. Automatic updates and patch management. Compatibility: all users will have the same version of the software. Easier collaboration, for the same reason. global accessibility.

Storage as a Service (SaaS)
Storage as a Service is a business model in which a large company rents space in its storage infrastructure to a smaller company or individual. The economy of scale in the service provider’s infrastructure theoretically allows them to provide storage much more cost-effectively than most individuals or corporations can provide their own storage when the total cost of ownership is considered. Storage as a Service is generally seen as a good alternative for a small or mid-sized business that lacks the capital budget and/or technical personnel to implement and maintain its own storage infrastructure.

Communications as a Service (CaaS)
Communications as a Service (CaaS) is an outsourced enterprise communications solution that can be leased from a single vendor. Such communications can include voice over IP (VoIP or Internet telephony), instant messaging (IM), collaboration, and video conference applications using fixed and mobile devices. The CaaS vendor is responsible for all hardware and software management and offers guaranteed Quality of Service (QoS). CaaS allows businesses to selectively deploy communications devices and modes on a pay-as-you-go instance.

Network as a Service (NaaS)
Network as a Service (NaaS) is a framework that integrates current cloud computing offerings with direct, yet secure, client access to the network infrastructure. NaaS is a new cloud computing model in which the clients have access to additional computing resources collocated with switches and routers. NaaS can include flexible and extended Virtual Private Network (VPN), bandwidth on demand, custom routing, multicast protocols, security firewall, intrusion detection and prevention, Wide Area Network (WAN), content monitoring and filtering, and antiviruses.

Monitoring as a Service (MaaS)
Monitoring-as-a-service (MaaS) is a framework that facilitates the deployment of monitoring functionalities for various other services and applications within the cloud. The most common application for MaaS is online state monitoring, which continuously tracks certain states of applications, networks, systems, instances, or any element that may be deployable within the cloud. MaaS makes it easier for users to deploy state monitoring at different levels of Cloud services.