DATABASES
A database system is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS) together, the data and the DBMS, along with the applications that are associated with them, are termed as a DATABASE SYSTEM, often shortened to just DATABASE.

Data within the most common types of databases in operation today is typically modelled in rows and columns in a series of tables to make processing and data querying easy and efficient. The data can then be easily accessed, managed, modified, updated, controlled, and organized. Most databases use structured query language (SQL) for writing and querying data and nonrelational database NoSQL which allows unstructured and semi structured data to be stored and manipulated (in contrast to a relational database, which defines how all data inserted into the database must be composed). NoSQL databases grew popular as web applications became more common and more complex.

EVOLUTION OF DATABASES
Databases have evolved dramatically since their inception in the early 1960s. Navigational databases such as the hierarchical database (which relied on a tree-like model and allowed only a one-to-many relationship), and the network database (a more flexible model that allowed multiple relationships), were the original systems used to store and manipulate data. Although simple, these early systems were inflexible. In the 1980s, relational databases became popular, followed by object-oriented databases in the 1990s. More recently, NoSQL databases came about as a response to the growth of the internet and the need for faster speed and processing of unstructured data. Today, cloud databases and self-driven databases are breaking new ground when it comes to how data is collected, stored, managed, and utilized.

Comparing database with Spreadsheets
Databases and spreadsheets (such as Microsoft Excel) are both convenient ways to store information. The primary differences between the two are comes from primarily how the data is stored and manipulated, who can access the data, and how much data can be stored. Spreadsheets were originally designed for one user, and their characteristics reflect that. They are great for a single user or small number of users who do not need to do a lot of incredibly complicated data manipulations. Databases, on the other hand, are designed to hold much larger collections of massive amounts of organized information. On the other hand, databases allow multiple users at the same time to quickly and securely access and query the data using highly complex logic and unique Language.

Database Software
Database software are used to create, edit, and maintain database files and records, enabling easier file and record creation, data entry, data editing, updating, and reporting. The software also handles data storage, backup and reporting, multi-access control, and security. Strong database security is especially important today, as data theft becomes more frequent. Database software is sometimes also referred to as a “DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM” (DBMS).

Database software makes data management simpler by enabling users to store data in a structured form and then access it. It typically has a graphical interface to help create and manage the data and, in some cases, users can construct their own databases by using database software.

Database Management System (DBMS)
A database typically requires a comprehensive database software program known as a database management system (DBMS). A DBMS serves as an interface between the database and its end users or programs, allowing users to retrieve, update, manipulate, and manage how the information is organized and optimized. A DBMS also facilitates oversight and control of databases, enabling a variety of administrative operations such as performance monitoring, tuning, and backup and recovery.
Some examples of popular database software or DBMSs include MySQL, Microsoft Access, Microsoft SQL Server, FileMaker Pro, Oracle Database, and dBASE.

TYPES OF Database Management Systems (DBMS) 
There are four main types of database management systems (DBMS) and these are based upon their management structures. In other words, the types of DBMS are entirely dependent upon how the database is structured by that particular DBMS.

Hierarchical Database Management Systems (DBMS)
A Database Management System is said to be hierarchical if the relationships among data in the database are established in such a way that one data item is present as the subordinate of another one or a sub unit of a unit. Here subordinate means that items have "a parent to child" relationships among them. Direct relationships exist between any two records that are stored consecutively. The data structure "tree" is followed by the DBMS to structure the database. No backward movement is possible/allowed in the hierarchical database. The hierarchical data model was developed by IBM in 1968 and introduced in information management systems. This model is like a structure of a tree with the records forming the nodes.

The hierarchical structure was used in early mainframe DBMS. Records' relationships form a TREELIKE MODEL. This structure is simple but inflexible because the relationship is confined to a one-to-many relationship. The IBM Information Management System (IMS) and the RDM Mobile are examples of a hierarchical database system with multiple hierarchies over the same data. RDM Mobile is a newly designed embedded database for a mobile computer system. A relational-database implementation of a hierarchical model was first discussed in published form in 1992. Hierarchical data organization schemes resurfaced with the advent of XML in the late 90s. The hierarchical structure is used primarily today for storing geographic information and file systems.

Currently hierarchical databases are still widely used especially in applications that require very high performance and availability such as banking and telecommunications. One of the most widely used commercial hierarchical databases is IMS. Another example of the use of hierarchical databases is Windows Registry in the Microsoft Windows operating systems. EXAMPLES OF HIERARCHICAL DATA
An organization could store employee information in a table that contains attributes/columns such as employee number, first name, last name, and Department number. The organization provides each employee with computer hardware as needed, but computer equipment may only be used by the employee to which it is assigned. The organization could store the computer hardware information in a separate table that includes each part's serial number, type, and the employee that uses it. 

The tables might look like this: In this model, the employee data table represents the "parent" part of the hierarchy, while the computer table represents the "child" part of the hierarchy. In contrast to tree structures usually found in computer software algorithms, in this model the children units point to the parents’ units. Each employee may possess several pieces of computer equipment, but each individual piece of computer equipment may have only one employee number. In this scenario, the "child" is the replica of the "parent". 

In Relational database management terms, one of the columns is a foreign key referencing the unique key attribute of the column. If for an instance the "child" data type were different from the “parent”, it would be in a different table, but there would still be a foreign key referencing the unique key column of the table. This simple model is commonly known as the adjacency list model, and was introduced by Dr. Edgar F. Codd after initial criticisms surfaced that the relational model could not model hierarchical data. The Windows Registry is a hierarchical database that stores configuration settings and options on Microsoft Windows operating systems. 

NETWORK DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
A Database Management System (DBMS) is said to be a Network DBMS if the relationships among the data in the database are of type MANY-TO-MANY relationship. The many-to-many communication paradigm is one of three major Internet computing paradigms, characterized by multiple users contributing and receiving information, with the information elements often interlinked across different websites. Developments such as file sharing, blogs, Wikis, and tagging are media forms that reflect this paradigm; these contrast with both the one-to-one (characterized by e-mail, FTP, and Telnet) and one-to-many (characterized by websites) paradigms. 

With the evolution to the full "many-to-many" computing paradigm, people can input and receive information to and from the Internet; they will be able to connect and communicate dynamically within a flexibly formed scope; there will be no artificial boundary between information shared and communication tools, and the definition of "many" will go well beyond people to include entities such as organizations, products, processes, events, and concepts. The relationships among many-to-many appears in the form of a network. Thus, the structure of a network database is extremely complicated because of these many-to-many relationships in which one record can be used as a key of the entire database. A network database is structured in the form of a graph that is also a data structure. Though the structure of such a DBMS is highly complicated however it has two basic elements: records and sets to designate many-to-many relationships. 
Mainly high-level languages such as Pascal, C++, COBOL and FORTRAN were used to implement the records and set structures. 
While the hierarchical database model structures data exist as a tree of records, with each record having one parent record and many children, the network model allows each record to have multiple parent and child records, forming a generalized graphical structure. This property applies at two levels: the schema is a generalized graph of record types connected by relationship types (called "set types" in CODASYL), and the database itself is a generalized graph of record occurrences connected by relationships (CODASYL "sets"). 
Cycles are permitted at both levels. The major characteristics of a network model, in comparison to the hierarchic model, was that it allows a more natural modeling of relationships between entities. Although the model was widely implemented and used, it failed to become dominant for two main reasons. Firstly, IBM chose to stick to the hierarchical model with semi-network extensions in their established products such as IMS and DL/I. 

Secondly, it was eventually displaced by the relational model, which offered a higher-level, more declarative interface. Until the early 1980s the performance benefits of the low-level navigational interfaces offered by hierarchical and network databases were persuasive for many large-scale applications, but as hardware became faster, the extra productivity and flexibility of the relational model led to the gradual obsolescence of the network model in corporate enterprise usage.
Some well-known database systems that use the network model include: Integrated Data Store (IDS), IDMS (Integrated Database Management System), RDM Embedded, RDM Server, TurboIMAGE, Univac DMS-1100. 

Relational Database Management System (DBMS)
A database management system is said to be a Relational DBMS or RDBMS if the database relationships system is treated in the form of a TABLE. There are three keys on relational DBMS: the relationship, the domain and attributes. A network means it contains a fundamental construct sets or records sets contains one to many relationships, records contain fields statical table that is composed of rows and columns and used to organize the database and its structure and is actually a two-dimensional array in the computer memory. A number of RDBMSs are available, some popular examples are Oracle, Sybase, Ingress, Informix, Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft Access.

Object-Oriented Database Management System (DBMS)
An Object-Oriented Database Management System (DBMS) is able to handle many new data types, including graphics, photographs, audio, and video, object-oriented databases represent a significant advance over their other database management systems. Hierarchical and network databases are all designed to handle structured data; that is, data that fits nicely into fields, rows, and columns. They are useful for handling small snippets of information such as names, addresses, zip codes, product numbers, and any kind of statistic or number you can think of. On the other hand, an object-oriented database can be used to store data from a variety of media sources, such as photographs and text, and produce work, as output, in a multimedia format.

Object-oriented databases use small, reusable chunks of software called OBJECTS. The objects themselves are stored in the object-oriented database. Each object consists of two elements:
1.	A piece of data (e.g., sound, video, text, or graphics).
2.	The instructions, or software programs called methods, for what to do with the data.
The instructions contained within the object are used to carryout instructions with the data in the object. For instance, test scores would be within the object as would the instructions for calculating average test score.

Object-oriented databases have two major downsides. First, they are more expensive to set up. Second, most organizations are reluctant to abandon or convert from those databases that they already have invested money in developing and implementing. 
However, the benefits of setting up object-oriented databases are compelling. The ability to mix and match reusable objects provides incredible multimedia capability. Healthcare organizations, for instance, can store, track, and recall CAT scans, X-rays, electrocardiograms and many other forms of crucial data. 

A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a database management system (DBMS) that is based on the relational model as invented by E. F. Codd, of IBM's San Jose Research Laboratory. Many popular databases currently in use are based on the relational database model. RDBMSs have become a predominant choice for the storage of information in new databases used for financial records, manufacturing and logistical information, personnel data, and much more since the 80s. Relational databases have often replaced legacy hierarchical databases and network databases because they are easier to understand and use. However, relational databases have been challenged by object-oriented databases, which were introduced in an attempt to address the object-relational impedance mismatch in relational database, and XML databases.

In 1974, IBM began developing System R, a research project to develop a prototype RDBMS. Its first commercial product was SQL/DS, released in 1981. However, the first commercially available RDBMS was Oracle, released in 1979 by Relational Software, now Oracle Corporation. Other examples of an RDBMS include DB2, SAP Sybase ASE, and Informix.
How to Choose the Right Type of Database

Given that there are so many different types of databases, choosing one can be confusing. Here are some factors you should keep in mind when selecting a database management system:

Atomicity
If atomicity is a top priority for you, stick to a relational database. Atomicity in database management promotes consistency in a database. It rests on the principle of atomic transactions. These are a series of operations that are considered composite operations. In other words, either all operations in an atomic transaction occur, or none at all. The simplest example of an atomic transaction is transferring money from account A to account B. Balance from account A should be deducted and the requisite number should be added to account B. Both operations need to be successful for the transaction to be successful.

Vertical or horizontal scaling
If your data strategy rests on vertical scaling, a relational database is fine. Vertical scaling adds more computing power to a server instead of adding more servers to the system. It is preferred when there are a limited number of users and not a lot of querying involved. In that sense, vertical scaling might be suitable for business-facing start-ups. The basic advantages of vertical scaling are speed and simplicity.
On the other hand, if you are expecting higher loads in terms of users or querying, horizontal scaling is a much cheaper solution. NoSQL databases employ horizontal scaling. Instead of adding more computing power to a server, they distribute the load across servers, and hence, the name. Horizontal scaling, and in turn, NoSQL databases, give businesses more elasticity. However, running joint operations is difficult on these systems.

Speed
If speed is more important than ACID compliance, a non-relational database, such as a document database, is a better bet. For instance, in the case of real-time data, such as sensor data, some compromise in data integrity can be tolerated in favor of speed. In a non-relational database, each record is an independent entity. Thus, it is possible to run multiple queries simultaneously irrespective of the size of the database.